webPage/source/downloads.rst, before:


GEMC Dowloads
=============


.. |downloadDevel| image:: download-button.png
	:width: 110pt
	:target: http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/dmg/gemc-devel.dmg

.. |download2.28| image:: download-button.png
	:width: 110pt
	:target: http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/dmg/gemc-2.2.dmg

.. |download2.210| image:: download-button.png
	:width: 110pt
	:target: http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/dmg/gemc-2.2.y.dmg


+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          Mac OS app (DMG)                                       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   Version    |  OS Version      |   Size   |                    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   **devel**  |    10.10 and up  |  608 MB  | |downloadDevel|    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   **2.2**    |    10.8 and up   |  471 MB  | |download2.28|     |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   **2.2**    |    10.10 and up  |  586 MB  | |download2.210|    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+

|

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          Fedora Line                                            |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   Version    |  OS Version      |   Size   |                    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     devel    |    23            |          | coming soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     2.2      |    23            |          | comong soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+

|

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          Ubuntu Line                                            |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   Version    |  OS Version      |   Size   |                    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     devel    |    14.04         |          | coming soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     2.2      |    14.04         |          | comong soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+




Geometry Downloads
------------------
`text factory experiment tarball <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/experiments-devel.tar>`_


Events:
-------
`10 Deep Inelastic Scattering events in LUND format <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/dis.dat>`_


GCards:
-------
`CLAS12 Experimental setup <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/clas12.php>`_
`HPS Experimental setup <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/hps.php>`_

Commit message:

added running at jlab docs. improved other docs

webPage/source/downloads.rst, after:


.. _downloads:

GEMC Dowloads
=============


.. |downloadDevel| image:: download-button.png
	:width: 110pt
	:target: http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/dmg/gemc-devel.dmg

.. |download2.28| image:: download-button.png
	:width: 110pt
	:target: http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/dmg/gemc-2.2.dmg

.. |download2.210| image:: download-button.png
	:width: 110pt
	:target: http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/dmg/gemc-2.2.y.dmg


+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          Mac OS app (DMG)                                       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   Version    |  OS Version      |   Size   |                    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   **devel**  |    10.10 and up  |  608 MB  | |downloadDevel|    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   **2.2**    |    10.8 and up   |  471 MB  | |download2.28|     |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   **2.2**    |    10.10 and up  |  586 MB  | |download2.210|    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+

|

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          Fedora Line                                            |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   Version    |  OS Version      |   Size   |                    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     devel    |    23            |          | coming soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     2.2      |    23            |          | coming soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+

|

+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          Ubuntu Line                                            |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|   Version    |  OS Version      |   Size   |                    |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     devel    |    14.04         |          | coming soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+
|     2.2      |    14.04         |          | coming soon!       |
+--------------+------------------+----------+--------------------+




Geometry Downloads
------------------
`text factory experiment tarball <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/experiments-devel.tar>`_ 


Events:
-------
`10 Deep Inelastic Scattering events in LUND format <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/dis.dat>`_


GCards:
-------
`CLAS12 Experimental setup <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/clas12.php>`_

`HPS Experimental setup <http://jlab.org/12gev_phys/packages/gcards/hps.php>`_



Running the GEMC app on a mac
-----------------------------

Using the gemc app icon
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Drag and drop a gcard on the GEMC icon.


Using the command line
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can use the gemc.command on a terminal to run gemc, using the typical options and gcard::

 /Application/gemc-*version*.app/gemc.app/Contents/MacOs/gemc.command   *options* *gcard*
