webPage/source/documentation/gdmlCadFactories.rst, before:


.. stl files can be viewed by using the github viewer. Doc is here: https://help.github.com/articles/3d-file-viewer/

######################
GDML and CAD Factories
######################

.. _gdmlCadFactories:


Importing GDML and CAD models in gemc
-------------------------------------

gemc can import models in GDML [#]_ or CAD [#]_.

For example, to import three detectors:

 - one in the usual TEXT format, named "drift_chambers"
 - one in GDML, named "target" (filename is target.gdml)
 - one in CAD, named "beamline" (filename is target.stl or target.ply)

you would add the following lines in the gcard::

 <detector name="drift_chambers" factory="TEXT" variation="lH2"/>
 <detector name="target" factory="GDML"/>
 <detector name="beamline" factory="CAD"/>

Notice you do not need the variation tag for the GDML and CAD detector factories.


GEMC attributes to models
--------------------------

Attributes can be added on the fly. This includes:

 - material
 - visualization attributes (color, surface style)
 - sensitivity

Attributes are assigned by using XML files (extension: ".gxml"). For example the following line will change
the color, material of an imported volume named "target" and assign flux sensitivity so that hits can be recorded::

 <volume name="target" color="99ff00" material="G4_Pb" sensitivity="flux" identifiers="id manual 1"/>




CAD vs GDML Attributes
----------------------

- A GDML file can contain many volumes. Their attributes are assigned by a .gxml file with the same name as the system.
  For example, to set the attributes of the target of the gcard above, a filename *"target.gxml"* can be used::

   <gxml>
 	 <volume name="inner_target_vol" color="8899dd" material="lH2"/>
   </gxml>

- A CAD file contains only one volume. Many cad files can be imported and the attributes of all of them can
  be set by filename *"cad.gxml"*"::

   <gxml>
	 <volume name="beamline" color="8899dd" material="G4_Al"/>
   </gxml>


|

CAD Examples
------------

.. raw:: html


	<script src="https://embed.github.com/view/3d/gemc/detectors/master/forFun/enterprise.stl?height=300&width=300"></script>
	<script src="https://embed.github.com/view/3d/gemc/detectors/master/forFun/dragon.stl?height=300&width=300"></script>


You can find many autocad examples `here <http://www.thingiverse.com/search/>`_.

|

Step to Mesh with FreeCad
-------------------------

Most autocad software can export models directly in the mesh format needed (STL, PLY or OBJ).
If that's not possible you can use Freecad [#]_ to convert step objects to stl format. Here are the steps:

1. Change the View > Workbench > Mesh Design
2. Select the object
3. Click on Meshes > Create Mesh From Shape
4. Select precision desired - click OK
5. Click on the new meshed object and File > Export  to a STL file (or PLY or OBJ).


|

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#] Geometry Description Markup Language. It's an application independent geometry description based on XML. See `gdml at cern <http://gdml.web.cern.ch/GDML>`_.
.. [#] STL (`STereoLithography <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STL_(file_format)>`_),
   PLY (`Standard Polygon Format <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PLY_%28file_format%29>`_),
   OBJ (`Alias Waveform Object <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file>`_) file formats are available.
.. [#] http://www.freecadweb.org

Commit message:

added accelerator sync in the roadmap. added doc for directory loading in cad. added cad/gdml news in latestNews

webPage/source/documentation/gdmlCadFactories.rst, after:


.. stl files can be viewed by using the github viewer. Doc is here: https://help.github.com/articles/3d-file-viewer/

######################
GDML and CAD Factories
######################

.. _gdmlCadFactories:


Importing GDML and CAD models in gemc
-------------------------------------

gemc can import models in GDML [#]_ or CAD [#]_.

For example, to import three detectors:

 - one in the usual TEXT format, named "drift_chambers"
 - one in GDML, named "target" (filename is target.gdml)
 - one in CAD, named "beamline" (filename is target.stl or target.ply)

you would add the following lines in the gcard::

 <detector name="drift_chambers" factory="TEXT" variation="lH2"/>
 <detector name="target" factory="GDML"/>
 <detector name="beamline" factory="CAD"/>

Notice you do not need the variation tag for the GDML and CAD detector factories.


Importing CAD models from a directory
-------------------------------------

A single directory can be specified in the gcard. GEMC will look for and load all valid CAD files inside that directory.
For example::

 <detector name="beamline/" factory="CAD"/>

will load all CAD files inside "beamline".
Only files with these extensions will be loaded: ".stl" or ".ply" or ".obj". Any other format will be ignored.

GEMC attributes to models
--------------------------

Attributes can be added on the fly. This includes:

 - material
 - visualization attributes (color, surface style)
 - sensitivity

Attributes are assigned by using XML files (extension: ".gxml"). For example the following line will change
the color, material of an imported volume named "target" and assign flux sensitivity so that hits can be recorded::

 <volume name="target" color="99ff00" material="G4_Pb" sensitivity="flux" identifiers="id manual 1"/>




CAD vs GDML Attributes
----------------------

- A GDML file can contain many volumes. Their attributes are assigned by a .gxml file with the same name as the system.
  For example, to set the attributes of the target of the gcard above, a filename *"target.gxml"* can be used::

   <gxml>
 	 <volume name="inner_target_vol" color="8899dd" material="lH2"/>
   </gxml>

- A CAD file contains only one volume. Many cad files can be imported and the attributes of all of them can
  be set by filename *"cad.gxml"*"::

   <gxml>
	 <volume name="beamline" color="8899dd" material="G4_Al"/>
   </gxml>


|

CAD Examples
------------

.. raw:: html


	<script src="https://embed.github.com/view/3d/gemc/detectors/master/forFun/enterprise.stl?height=300&width=300"></script>
	<script src="https://embed.github.com/view/3d/gemc/detectors/master/forFun/dragon.stl?height=300&width=300"></script>


You can find many autocad examples `here <http://www.thingiverse.com/search/>`_.

|

Step to Mesh with FreeCad
-------------------------

Most autocad software can export models directly in the mesh format needed (STL, PLY or OBJ).
If that's not possible you can use Freecad [#]_ to convert step objects to stl format. Here are the steps:

1. Change the View > Workbench > Mesh Design
2. Select the object
3. Click on Meshes > Create Mesh From Shape
4. Select precision desired - click OK
5. Click on the new meshed object and File > Export  to a STL file (or PLY or OBJ).


|

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#] Geometry Description Markup Language. It's an application independent geometry description based on XML. See `gdml at cern <http://gdml.web.cern.ch/GDML>`_.
.. [#] STL (`STereoLithography <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STL_(file_format)>`_),
   PLY (`Standard Polygon Format <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PLY_%28file_format%29>`_),
   OBJ (`Alias Waveform Object <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wavefront_.obj_file>`_) file formats are available.
.. [#] http://www.freecadweb.org
