:orphan:

.. _2.6:

###########
Release 2.6
###########

Libraries Version
-----------------

- geant4: 4.10.03.p02
- qt: 5.8.0
- clhep: 2.3.4.5

MLibrary
--------

The mlibrary is a collection of highly optimized, specialized
stand-alone c++ 11 libraries that fashion gemc into a object oriented framework.

Some functionality of gemc 2.X is being replaced by these libraries. Others are being prepared
for release 3.0.

The documentation for the mlibrary can be found :ref:`here <mlibrary>`.


FAST MC Mode
-------------
- FASTMCMODE option:

 - 0: No FASTMC (default).
 - 1: Disable secondaries (5m production cut) and set high (5m) max step in sensitive detectors
 - 2: Disable all physics but transportation.

More details on the FAST MC mode can be found :ref:`here <fastMCMode>`.

Processes Catalogue
-------------------
- added anti_neutronInelastic
- added Scintillation in the process catalogue. Added verbosity condition to print not catalogue pro
- added ionInelastic process


Additional Options
------------------
- added option SKIPNGEN to skip N generated events

Various
-------
- added magnetic field information in MHit. This will give access to it to all sensitive detector hit process routines.
- loading field info in MHit
- Added vacuumOpt material - vacuum with optical property. Addressing issue #64.
- making cameras slices more responsive
- added culling combo option in the GUI
- added button to show 100cm long axes

Physics
-------
- added Birk Constant properties in material factory
- added reading mirrors Sigma Alpha. Fixed backward compatibility for materials.
- adding property sigmaAlpha in optical surfaces
- added Birk Constant properties in material factory
- addded mirror sigmaAlpha in verbosity log
- added detector threshold variable detectorThreshold that can be set and used in the digitization routine in conjuction with writeHit
- added option G4FIELDCACHESIZE to set the geant4 field cache size.
- added G4SynchrotronRadiation process, off by default, activated with option SYNRAD
- added G4SynchrotronRadiationInMat. SYNRAD option activate that one if it is set to 2.


Generator
---------
- if one uses the /gun/particle /gun/ion command then we make sure not to overwrite those values
- added option ION_P:
  Option ION_P: Primary particle is an ion. Sets Z, A and Charge State of the primary particle. Setting the charge state is optional.

 - Example 1: -ION_P="6 12" sets the Z to 6, A to 12. Charge will be Z.
 - Example 2: -ION_P="6 12 4" sets the Z to 6, A to 12, and charge to 4.
 - Notice: BEAM_P still sets the particle momentum, and its type must be GenericIon. For example:

 -BEAM_P="GenericIon, 4*GeV, 90*deg, 0*deg"

- added beagle open file in primary generator for ascii
- stopping run manager if no more events in the LUND or BEAGLE format
- routine to set generated particle from input file more general
- M. Holtrop: fixed vertex spread

- added optional argument (appended at the end) to BEAM_P: "KE" can specify that the momentum is kinematic energy instead.
  For example, to simulate a K=250 MeV proton::

-BEAM_P="proton, 250*MeV, 90*deg, 90*deg, KE"


FADC Mode 1
-----------
- 1st version of FADC Mode1 output


Background Merging
------------------
- option to load background hits from ascii file: for example random trigger hits from a real experiment


|

For the complete list of all changes please visit the `changelog <../changelog.html>`_.



